[Excel] [PnP] Open in Excel (#2188)
OfficeDev/office-js-docs-pr: docs/excel/pnp-open-in-excel.md

1. Find following code that is the download button on the form:
    ```html
    <asp:Button ID="btnDownload" runat="server" Text="Download" OnClick="btnDownload_Click" /> 
    ```
1. Replace the button code with the following image tag.
    ```html
    <asp:Image  src="https://static2.sharepointonline.com/files/fabric/assets/brand-icons/product/svg/excel_48x1.svg" width="48" height="48" ID="btnDownload" runat="server" OnClick="btnDownload_Click" AlternateText="Open in Microsoft Excel" role="button" ImageUrl=""/>  
    ```
1. Press **F5** (or **Debug > Start Debugging**). You will see the icon appear when the home page loads.

For more information on how to use the Office Brand Icons, see [Office Brand Icons](https://developer.microsoft.com/fluentui#/styles/web/office-brand-icons).  

## Upload the Excel document to Microsoft OneDrive

We recommend uploading new documents to OneDrive any time a customer has OneDrive. This will make it easier for them to find and work with the documents. Let’s create a new code sample and see how you can use the Microsoft Graph SDK to upload a new Excel document to OneDrive.

### Use a quick-start to build a new Microsoft Graph web application

> 1. Go to https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/quick-start and follow the steps to create and open a quick start code sample that interacts with Office 365 services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to [https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/quick-start](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/quick-start) and follow the steps to create and open a quick start code sample that interacts with Office 365 services.
```

> 1. In **step 1: Pick you language or platform**, choose **ASP.NET MVC**. Although the steps in this procedure use the ASP.NET MVC option, the steps follow a pattern that can apply to any language or platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In **step 1: Pick you language or platform**, choose **ASP.NET MVC**. Although the steps in this procedure use the ASP.NET MVC option, the steps follow a pattern that apply to any language or platform.
```

1. In **step 2: Get an app ID and secret**, choose **Get an app ID and secret**.
1. Sign in to your Microsoft 365 account.  
1. On the **Please save your app secret** web page, save the app secret to a file location where you can retrieve and use it later.
1. Choose **Got it, take me back to the quick start**.
1. In **step 2: Registration Successful!** Enter the generated app secret.
1. In **step 3: Start coding**, choose **Download the SDK-based code sample**.
1. Extract the download zip folder into a local folder.  
1. Open the graph-tutorial.sln file in Visual Studio 2019.
1. Build and run the solution and confirm it is working correctly. You should be able to use the calendar web page to view your Microsoft 365 calendar.

### Upload a file to OneDrive

1. Open the graph-tutorial.sln solution in Visual Studio 2019, and open the PrivateSettings.config file.
1. Add a new scope Files.ReadWrite to the ida:AppScopes key so that it looks like the following code:
    ```xml
    <add key="ida:AppScopes" value="User.Read Calendars.Read Files.ReadWrite " />
    ```
1. Open the Index.cshtml file.

> 1. Insert the following ActionLink code to create a button for uploading a file to OneDrive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Insert the following ActionLink code to create a button to upload a file to OneDrive.
```

        @Html.ActionLink("Click here to create a new file on OneDrive", "CreateOneDriveFile", "Home", new { area = "" }, new { @class = "btn btn-primary btn-large" })
    }
    ```
1. Open the HomeController.cs file.
1. Insert the following code to handle the request from the action link.
    ```csharp
    public void CreateOneDriveFile()
        {
            using (var stream = new System.IO.MemoryStream(System.Text.Encoding.UTF8.GetBytes("The contents of the file goes here.")))
            {
                var client = graph_tutorial.Helpers.GraphHelper.UploadFile("/test.txt", stream);
            }
        }
    ```
1. Open the GraphHelper.cs file.
1. Insert the following code to call the Microsoft Graph API to create a new file on OneDrive.
    ```csharp
    public static async Task UploadFile(string fileName, System.IO.MemoryStream stream)
        {
           var graphClient = GetAuthenticatedClient();
            await graphClient.Me
                .Drive
                .Root
                .ItemWithPath(fileName)
                .Content
                .Request()
                .PutAsync<DriveItem>(stream);
            return;
        }
    ```

> 1. Press F5 (or Debug > Start Debugging). The web application will start.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press **F5** (or Debug > Start Debugging). The web application will start.
```

> 1. Choose Click here to sign in, and sign in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Click here to sign in**, and sign in.
```

> 1. Choose Click here to create a new file on OneDrive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Choose **Click here to create a new file** on OneDrive.
```

> 1. Open a new browser tab and sign in to your OneDrive account. You will see the test.txt file in the root folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open a new browser tab and sign in to your OneDrive account. You'll see the test.txt file in the root folder.
```

> Now that you have seen how to upload a file to OneDrive, you can reuse this code to upload any Excel document that you create.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you've learned how to upload a file to OneDrive, you can reuse this code to upload any Excel document that you create.
```

## Additional considerations for your solution

> Everyone’s solution is different in terms of technologies and approaches. The following considerations will help you when planning out how to modify your solution to open documents and embed your Office add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Everyone’s solution is different in terms of technologies and approaches. The following considerations will help you plan how to modify your solution to open documents and embed your Office Add-in.
```

### Create a new Excel spreadsheet from the web page

> The sample modifies an existing Excel document. A more common scenario is that you’ll create a new Excel spreadsheet from your web page. You can find additional details on how to create a new spreadsheet in Create a spreadsheet document by providing a file name. This article shows how to create the file locally, but you can also create the file in a stream by using an overload on the SpreadsheetDocument.Create method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sample modifies an existing Excel document. A more common scenario is that you’ll create a new Excel spreadsheet from your web page. You can find additional details on how to create a new spreadsheet in **Create a spreadsheet document** by providing a file name. This article shows how to create the file locally, but you can also create the file in a stream by using an overload on the SpreadsheetDocument.Create method.
```
This is a bit confusing, is "Create a spreadsheet document" a link to a topic or a UI feature? And what is "This article?" Please clarify using either a link to the article or define the UI more clearly.

### Read custom properties when your add-in starts

> The code sample stores a snippet ID in the new Excel document using the OOXML SDK. Script Lab reads the snippet ID from the Excel document and then displays that snippet code when it opens. You may need to send custom properties to your own add-in (such as a query string, or temporary auth token.) See Persisting add-in state and settings for complete details on how to read custom properties when your add-in starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The code sample stores a snippet ID in the new Excel document using the OOXML SDK. Script Lab reads the snippet ID from the Excel document and then displays that snippet code when it opens. You may need to send custom properties to your own add-in (such as a query string, or temporary auth token.) See **Persisting add-in state and settings** for complete details on how to read custom properties when your add-in starts.
```
Is this a link?

### Initialize the Excel document with data

> Typically when the customer opens up an Excel document from your web site, they will expect the document to already contain some data from the web site. There are a couple of ways to write data into the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, when the customer opens up an Excel document from your web site, they expect the document to contain some data from the web site. There are a couple of ways to write data into the document.
```

> - Use the OOXML SDK to write the data. You can use the SDK to directly write any data into the document. This approach is useful if you want the data to be available the instant the document is opened.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use the OOXML SDK to write the data. You can use the SDK to directly write any data into the document. This approach is useful if you want the data to be immediately available when the document is opened.
```

> - Pass a custom query property to your Office add-in. When you generate the document, you embed a custom property for the Office add-in that contains a query string that retrieves all the required data. When your add-in opens, it retrieves the query, runs the query, and uses the Office JS API to insert the result of the query into the document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Pass a custom query property to your Office Add-in. When you generate the document, you embed a custom property for the Office Add-in that contains a query string to retrieve all the required data. When your add-in opens, it retrieves the query, runs the query, and uses the Office JS API to insert the result of the query into the document.
```
```suggestion
- Pass a custom query property to your Office add-in. When you generate the document, you embed a custom property for the Office add-in that contains a query string that retrieves all the required data. When your add-in opens, it retrieves the query, runs the query, and uses the Office JavaScript API to insert the result of the query into the document.
```

### Working with the OOXML SDK

> The OOXML SDK is based on .NET. If your web application is not using .NET, you’ll need to look for an alternative way of working with OOXML.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OOXML SDK is based on .NET. If your web application does not .NET, you’ll need to look for an alternative way to work with OOXML.
```

> There is a JavaScript version of the OOXML SDK available at https://archive.codeplex.com/?p=openxmlsdkjs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is a JavaScript version of the OOXML SDK available at [Open XML SDK for JavaScript](https://archive.codeplex.com/?p=openxmlsdkjs).
```

> You can place the OOXML code in an Azure function to separate the .NET code from the rest of your web application. Then call the Azure function (to generate the Excel document) from your Web application. For more information on Azure functions, see https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can place the OOXML code in an Azure function to separate the .NET code from the rest of your web application. Then call the Azure function (to generate the Excel document) from your Web application. For more information on Azure functions, see [An introduction to Azure Functions](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-functions/functions-overview).
```

### Simplify authentication

> Usually the customer will be authenticated and signed in when working in your web application. A best practice is to keep them signed in when they open the document. You don’t want to require them to sign in again to use your Office add-in. A good way to handle this is pass a short-lived auth token to the add-in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Usually the customer will be authenticated and signed in when working in your web application. A best practice is to allow them to stay signed in when they open the document so they are not required to sign in again to use your Office Add-in. A good way to handle this is pass a short-lived auth token to the add-in.
```

1. Use the OOXML SDK to save the auth token as a custom property in the document.
1. Read the token from the document when the add-in starts.
1. The add-in can then connect to your services without requiring any additional auth steps from the customer.

## See it in Action  

> - Link to Vena blog post  

Reviewer: Reminder to add these links!
